MongoDB connector docs (#2715)
wso2/docs-ei: en/micro-integrator/docs/references/connectors/mongodb-connector/mongodb-connector-config.md

# MongoDB Connector Reference

The following operations allow you to work with the MongoDB Connector.

## Connection configurations

The MongoDB connector can be used to deal with two types of connections:

-   <b>Connection URI (URI)</b>: The connection URI used to connect to the MongoDB database. 

> -   <b>Connection Parameters</b>: The connection URI is built by the connector using the parameters. Following protocols are supported by the MongoDB connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   <b>Connection Parameters</b>: The parameters used for creating the connection URI. Following protocols are supported by the MongoDB connector.
```

            <ul>
                <li>
                    <b>STANDARD</b>:  The standard format of the MongoDB connection URI.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <b>DSL</b>: The DNS-constructed seed list format of the MongoDB connection URI.
                </li>
                <li>
                    <b>URI</b>: The complete connection URI containing the server details, credentials and the connection options.
                </li>
            </ul>
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            Yes
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Database
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>
            The name of the database in the MongoDB server.
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            Yes
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

### URI connection configs

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Parameter Name</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Default Value</th>
        <th>Required</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Connection URI
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             The complete connection URI containing the server details, credentials and the connection options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The complete connection URI containing the server details, credentials, and the connection options.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            Yes
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

**Sample Configuration of URI configs**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<localEntry key="uriConnection" xmlns="http://ws.apache.org/ns/synapse">
    <mongodb.init>
        <name>uriConnection</name>
        <connectionType>URI</connectionType>
        <connectionURI>mongodb+srv://server.example.com/?connectTimeoutMS=300000&authSource=aDifferentAuthDB</connectionURI>
        <database>users</database>
    </mongodb.init>
</localEntry>
```

### Common configs for STANDARD and DSL types

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Parameter Name</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Default Value</th>
        <th>Required</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Replica Set
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             Specifies the name of the replica set, if the mongod is a member of a replica set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            If the mongoDB database is a member of a replica set, this parameter specifies the name of the replica set.
```

>             Specifies the name of the replica set, if the mongod is a member of a replica set.

Reviewer: "If the mongoDB database is a member of a replica set, this parameter specifies the name of the replica set."

Not sure if this should be 'mongoDB' or 'mongod'

Author: ```suggestion
If the mongod is a member of a replica set, this parameter specifies the name of the replica set.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Auth Source
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             Specify the database name associated with the user’s credentials. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The database name associated with the user’s credentials. 
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Auth Mechanism
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             Specify the authentication mechanism that MongoDB will use to authenticate the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The authentication mechanism that MongoDB will use for authenticating the connection.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Auth Mechanism Properties
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             Specify properties for the specified authMechanism as a comma-separated list of colon-separated key-value pairs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Properties for the specified authorisation mechanism as a comma-separated list of colon-separated key-value pairs.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Gssapi Service Name
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             Set the Kerberos service name when connecting to Kerberized MongoDB instances. This value must match the service name set on MongoDB instances to which you are connecting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The Kerberos service name when connecting to Kerberized MongoDB instances. This value must match the service name set on MongoDB instances to which you are connecting.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            W
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             Corresponds to the write concern w Option. The w option requests acknowledgement that the write operation has propagated to a specified number of mongod instances or to mongod instances with specified tags.

Reviewer: 'mongod' or 'mongoDB'?
Shall we rephrase this sentence: "Corresponds to the write concern w Option."
Not sure what this means

Author: ```suggestion
Corresponds to the write concern w Option.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            W Timeout MS
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>

> The time limit (in milliseconds) of the write concern.

Author: ```suggestion
             The time limit (in milliseconds) of the write concern.
```

>             Corresponds to the write concern wtimeout. wtimeoutMS specifies a time limit, in milliseconds, for the write concern.

Reviewer: "The time limit (in milliseconds) for the timeout when the write concern is 'wtimeout'."

hope the above is correct?

Author: ```suggestion
The time limit (in milliseconds) of the write concern.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Journal
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             Corresponds to the write concern j Option option. The journal option requests acknowledgement from MongoDB that the write operation has been written to the journal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            When this option used, the Micro Integrator requests an acknowledgement from MongoDB that the write operation has been written to the journal. This applies when the write concern is set to 'j'.
```

        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Maximum Pool Size
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>
            The maximum number of connections in the connection pool.
        </td>
        <td>
            100
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Minimum Pool Size
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>
            The minimum number of connections in the connection pool.
        </td>
        <td>
            0
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Maximum Idle Time MS
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>
            The maximum number of milliseconds that a connection can remain idle in the pool before being removed and closed.
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Wait Queue Multiple
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>

>             A number that the driver multiples the maxPoolSize value to, to provide the maximum number of threads allowed to wait for a connection to become available from the pool. 

Reviewer: Not sure what this means.

Author: Resolved in the commit https://github.com/shiromi-basil/docs-ei/commit/3351838abc8a6a10ff1350ac9f9d580138e4956b.

>             A number that the driver multiples the maxPoolSize value to, to provide the maximum number of threads allowed to wait for a connection to become available from the pool. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The maximum pool size is multiplied by this value to calculate the maximum number of threads that are allowed to wait for a connection to become available in the pool. 
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Wait Queue Timeout MS
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>
            The maximum time in milliseconds that a thread can wait for a connection to become available. 
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            SSL
        </td>
        <td>
            Boolean
        </td>
        <td>
            A boolean to enable or disables TLS/SSL for the connection.
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            SSL Invalid Host Names Allowed
        </td>
        <td>
            Boolean
        </td>
        <td>
            User name used to connect with the file server.
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Connect Timeout TS
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>

>             The time in milliseconds to attempt a connection before timing out. The default is never to timeout, though different drivers might vary.

Reviewer: "The time in milliseconds for attempting a connection before timing out. For most drivers, the default is to never timeout."

Author: ```suggestion
            The time in milliseconds for attempting a connection before timing out. For most drivers, the default is to never timeout.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Socket Timeout MS
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>

>             The time in milliseconds to attempt a send or receive on a socket before the attempt times out. The default is never to timeout, though different drivers might vary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The time in milliseconds for attempting a send or receive on a socket before the attempt times out. For most drivers, the default is to never timeout.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Compressors
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>
            Comma-delimited string of compressors to enable network compression for communication between this client and a mongod/mongos instance.
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Zlib Compression Level
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>

>             An integer that specifies the compression level if using zlib for network compression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            An integer that specifies the compression level when zlib is used for network compression.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Read Concern Level
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>
            The level of isolation.
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Read Preference
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>
            Specifies the read preferences for this connection. 
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Maximum Staleness Seconds
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>

>             Specifies, in seconds, how stale a secondary can be before the client stops using it for read operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The maximum time (in seconds) a connection can remain stale before the client stops using it for read operations.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Read Preference Tags
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             Specifies the tags document as a comma-separated list of colon-separated key-value pairs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Document tags as a comma-separated list or colon-separated key-value pairs. 
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Local Threshold MS
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>

>             The size (in milliseconds) of the latency window for selecting among multiple suitable MongoDB instances. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The latency (in milliseconds) that is allowed when selecting a suitable MongoDB instance from the list of available instances.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            15
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Server Selection Timeout MS
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>

>             Specifies how long (in milliseconds) to block for server selection before throwing an exception. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The time (in milliseconds) that is allowed for server selection before an exception is thrown. 
```

        </td>
        <td>
            30,000
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Server Selection Try Once
        </td>
        <td>
            Boolean
        </td>
        <td>

>             Single-threaded drivers only. When true, instructs the driver to scan the MongoDB deployment exactly once after server selection fails and then either select a server or raise an error. When false, the driver blocks and searches for a server up to the serverSelectionTimeoutMS value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            When true, the driver scans the MongoDB deployment exactly once after server selection fails and then either selects a server or raises an error. When false, the driver searches for a server until the serverSelectionTimeoutMS value is reached. Only applies for single-threaded drivers.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            true
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Heartbeat Frequency MS
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>

>             heartbeatFrequencyMS controls when the driver checks the state of the MongoDB deployment. Specify the interval (in milliseconds) between checks, counted from the end of the previous check until the beginning of the next one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Controls the intervals between which the driver checks the state of the MongoDB deployment. The interval (in milliseconds) between checks, counted from the end of the previous check until the beginning of the next one.
```

        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>
            The type of UUID representation.
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

### STANDARD connection configs

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Parameter Name</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Default Value</th>
        <th>Required</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Host
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>
            The name of the host. It identifies either a hostname, IP address, or unix domain socket. Defaults to 127.0.0.1 if not provided.
        </td>
        <td>
            127.0.0.1
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Port
        </td>
        <td>
            Number
        </td>
        <td>
            The port number. Defaults to 27017 if not provided.
        </td>
        <td>
            27017
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Seed List
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             A seed list is used by drivers and clients (like the mongo shell) for initial discovery of the replica set configuration. Seed lists can be provided as a list of host:port pairs. This is used in Replica Sets and Sharded Clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            A seed list is used by drivers and clients (like the mongo shell) for initial discovery of the replica set configuration. Seed lists can be provided as host:port pairs. This is used in replica sets and shared clusters.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Username
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             The username to authenticate the database associated with the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The user name to authenticate the database associated with the user.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Password
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>
            The password to authenticate the database associated with the user.
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

> **Sample Configuration of STANDARD configs**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Sample configuration of STANDARD configs**
```

> Sample Configuration of STANDARD - standalone configs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample configuration of STANDARD (standalone) configs
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<localEntry key="standaloneStandardConnection" xmlns="http://ws.apache.org/ns/synapse">
    <mongodb.init>
        <name>standaloneStandardConnection</name>
        <connectionType>STANDARD</connectionType>
        <host>localhost</host>
        <port>27017</port>
        <database>users</database>
        <username>administrator</username>
        <password>1234</password>
    </mongodb.init>
</localEntry>
```

> Sample Configuration of STANDARD - replica set configs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample configuration of STANDARD replica set configs
```

Author: ```suggestion
Sample configuration of STANDARD (replica set) configs
```

    <mongodb.init>
        <name>replicaSetStandardConnection</name>
        <connectionType>STANDARD</connectionType>
        <seedList>mongodb1.example.com:27317,mongodb2.example.com:27017</seedList>
        <database>users</database>
        <username>administrator</username>
        <password>1234</password>
        <authSource>aDifferentAuthDB</authSource>
        <ssl>true</ssl>
        <w>majority</w>
        <replicaSet>mySet</replicaSet>
        <retryWrites>true</retryWrites>
    </mongodb.init>
</localEntry>
```

### DSL connection configs

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Parameter Name</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Default Value</th>
        <th>Required</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Host
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>
            The name of the host. It identifies either a hostname, IP address, or unix domain socket.
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            Yes
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Username
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>

>             The username to authenticate the database associated with the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The user name to authenticate the database associated with the user.
```

        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            Password
        </td>
        <td>
            String
        </td>
        <td>
            The password to authenticate the database associated with the user.
        </td>
        <td>
            -
        </td>
        <td>
            No
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

**Sample Configuration of DSL configs**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<localEntry key="dslConnection" xmlns="http://ws.apache.org/ns/synapse">
    <mongodb.init>
        <name>dslConnection</name>
        <connectionType>DSL</connectionType>
        <host>server.example.com</host>
        <database>users</database>
        <username>administrator</username>
        <password>1234</password>
        <authSource>aDifferentAuthDB</authSource>
        <retryWrites>true</retryWrites>
        <w>majority</w>
    </mongodb.init>
</localEntry>
```

## Operations

> The following operations allow you to work with the MongoDB Connector. Click an operation name to see parameter details and samples on how to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following operations allow you to work with the MongoDB connector. Click an operation name to see parameter details and samples on how to use it.
```

                Specifies the fields to return using [projection operators](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/projection/). Omit this parameter to return all fields in the matching document.
            </td>
            <td>
                -
            </td>
            <td>
                No
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
                Collation
            </td>
            <td>
                JSON String
            </td>
            <td>
                Collation allows users to specify language-specific rules for string comparison, such as rules for letter case and accent marks.
            </td>
            <td>
                -
            </td>
            <td>
                No
            </td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample Configuration**

    ```xml
    <mongodb.findOne configKey="connectionURI">
        <collection>{json-eval($.collection)}</collection>
        <query>{json-eval($.query)}</query>
    </mongodb.findOne>
    ```

    **Sample Request**

    ```json
    {
        "collection": "TestCollection",
        "query": {
            "name": "Jane Doe"
        }
    }
    ```

??? note "find"

>     Selects documents in a collection or [view](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/views/) and returns a [cursor](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/glossary/#term-cursor) to the selected documents.See the related [find documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/db.collection.find/) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Selects documents in a collection or [view](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/views/) and returns a [cursor](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/glossary/#term-cursor) to the selected documents. See the related [find documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/db.collection.find/) for more information.
```

    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter Name</th>
            <th>Type</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Default Value</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
                Collection
            </td>
            <td>
                String
            </td>
            <td>
                The name of the MongoDB collection.
            </td>
            <td>
                -
            </td>
            <td>
                Yes
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
                Query
            </td>
            <td>
                JSON String
            </td>
            <td>

>                 Specifies selection filter using [query operators](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/). To return all documents in a collection, omit this parameter or pass an empty document ({}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                Selection filter using [query operators](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/). To return all documents in a collection, omit this parameter or pass an empty document ({}).
```

            <td>
                Boolean
            </td>
            <td>
                Creates a new document if no documents match the filter. 
            </td>
            <td>
                false
            </td>
            <td>
                No
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
                Collation
            </td>
            <td>
                JSON String
            </td>
            <td>
                Collation allows users to specify language-specific rules for string comparison, such as rules for letter case and accent marks.
            </td>
            <td>
                -
            </td>
            <td>
                No
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
                Array Filters
            </td>
            <td>
                JSON String
            </td>
            <td>
                An array of filter documents that determine which array elements to modify for an update operation on an array field.
            </td>
            <td>
                -
            </td>
            <td>
                No
            </td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    !!! Info

>         Array Filters parameter should be in a JSON object format. Please refer to the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Array Filters parameter should be in a JSON object format. See the example given below.
```

            <td>
                Boolean
            </td>
            <td>
                Creates a new document if no documents match the filter. 
            </td>
            <td>
                false
            </td>
            <td>
                No
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
                Collation
            </td>
            <td>
                JSON String
            </td>
            <td>
                Collation allows users to specify language-specific rules for string comparison, such as rules for letter case and accent marks.
            </td>
            <td>
                -
            </td>
            <td>
                No
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
                Array Filters
            </td>
            <td>
                JSON String
            </td>
            <td>
                An array of filter documents that determine which array elements to modify for an update operation on an array field.
            </td>
            <td>
                -
            </td>
            <td>
                No
            </td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    !!! Info

>         Array Filters parameter should be in a JSON object format. Please refer to the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Array filters parameter should be in a JSON object format. See the example given below.
```

            String
        </td>
        <td>

> If the mongod is a member of a replica set, this parameter specifies the name of the replica set.

Author: ```suggestion
            If the mongod is a member of a replica set, this parameter specifies the name of the replica set.
```

            String
        </td>
        <td>

> Corresponds to the write concern w Option.

Author: ```suggestion
            Corresponds to the write concern w Option.
```

            Number
        </td>
        <td>
The time limit (in milliseconds) of the write concern.

>         </td>

Author: ```suggestion
             The time limit (in milliseconds) of the write concern.
```
